.. _Nelghas:

Nelghas
=======

About
-----
A big city, surrounded by walls, on the edge of a cliff. It is one the few bastions of sanity in
Avernus, on the outskirts of the level- as far from the pass as you reasonably
get. It houses mostly damned souls, looking for solace in their last days.

The city is sparsely populated in comparison to its size.
The walls are much thicker than is usual, and surround the city from all
directions- including the sheer cliff at the very edge.

Below the cliff, there are rolling hills. Grain and a little livestock is
cultivated at the base of the cliff, under guard. There is a passage there
from near the city, outside the walls.

The most common threat is that of demons and devils, mostly mindless variants,
which stalk the region as a whole.


Leader: Gan Distantshine
------------------------

.. _Gan:

Elf, damned to Avernus because he massacred the most of the Church of Obelisk,
about 300 years ago. This led to Obelisk personally arriving in the Normal
Plane, which is a very rare occasion since he generally doesn't intervene, much
less so punish. 
For the most part, no one knows this. 

Considered a very capable leader, he leads Nelgahs through the chaos in Avernus.

Punishing him curries favour with :ref:`Obelisk`.

A member of :ref:`Aire`'s faction, he believes any injustice should be punished. 
When he was tasked with retrieving Obelisk's true blade, he waited for all the high
ranking priests to gather in Obelisk's central temple, and then burned it down.

The Broken Window
-----------------

Located to the right of the main street which extends outside the gatehouse.

The only tavern at Nelgahs. Owned by hot-headed :ref:`Lewis`. 

Current barmaid is :ref:`Aya Korem`, a meter sixty and then some, green eyes and
almost-black hair. She is unsettled by how the previous barman lost his life,
but she is desperate for the job- Broldon was like a brother to her, and without
him she has no one to turn to. Lewis offred her the job because he thought it
might help her cope with the loss.

Previous barman is :ref:`Broldon Moltenflower`, a Dwarf, which died in an uncertain way, Gan 
claiming the hands of a Demon which infiltrated Nelgahs. He considers himself
a Brother to Aya, and she considers him the same, even though they are not
related by blood. He was a bandit, and took Aya in after her parents died
in a raid (they were both also bandits with his party). He and Aya were thrown 
to Avernus because they (and their party) `did something to offend Aton-Ka`.

Peyton the Jester
-----------------
.. _Peyton the Jester:

The oldest person in town is the dwarf Peyton the Jester,
which runs the only apothecary.

He was a bandit that unfortunately robbed a
convoy headed by high ranking priest, 
and his whole gang got here. 
He remembers that when Gal arrived,
he was sprayed in blood, and carried a 
large emblem depicting a setting golden sun 
(symbol of obelisk), also bloodied.



